I want to talk about Docker,
so in the previous lesson,
I showed how to essentially do
a production build that generates kind of
this optimized set of static files that
you can put into like an S3 bucket.
Or that being AWS, there are essentially,
variations of this for
every single major cloud hosting platform.
But another very viable option, and
one that I use very often is docker,
and there's a ton of great
material front end masters.
And so we're not going to
do a deep dive into docker.
But what I wanna talk about
is how I use docker in my own
development workflow,
to not only develop locally,
but to develop within a team,
and then ultimately,
where that Dockerfile kind of ends
up going in terms of production.
And so within the application,
specifically on the 08.1 docker branch
is where you're gonna find this.
This will all go back into
master when we're done.
But, there are some
interesting additions to
this particular project
that I want to point out.
Now before we get into
the files themselves,
that if you go to the readme
to the very bottom,
there is this very handy Section
that we've added to this readme,
that kind of explains how to get up and
running.
And so, what we've done here and I can
just go ahead and do a preview of this.
So, open preview,
you scroll down to the bottom and
these are the commands that we use.
So one thing that I do want to call out is
that if you're going to do this locally,
then you need to install if
you can believe it, docker,
and so this is a super great tool.
It's super easy.
And this allows you to run
docker containers locally.
And so you can see here that I
have two applications running.
So I went ahead and did
the Julia Child's cake in the oven, and
we're not gonna waste 15 minutes or
whatever watching this build.
But we have two containers.
We have the app and the API.
And so this leads to really
the discussion that I want to get to
about how do I use this in my
local development environment.
And so, what I've done is
if you look into the file
structure here is that
I have a Dockerfile for
the app, and
then I have a Dockerfile for the API.
And what we're doing is we're essentially
using these Dockerfiles to build out or
to really, essentially build out
a container and put the application.
Inside of that docker container so
that you can spin it up.
And so I'll just quickly kind
of walk through these pieces.
So we can see kinda what's
happening in what they're doing.
So we're using Alpine.
And in this case,
we are putting because this is the API,
we're doing it on port 333.
And then from here,
we're just packaging or
essentially copying some additional
files over the package dot Jason,
the yarn lock and
this decorate angular CLI.
So what you have to do is you kind of have
to play around with this a little bit
to figure out what do I need to put
in this to work, and more importantly
is that we are essentially copying
everything within this project over.
Now what you would do to optimize this, is
that we're just saying pick everything up,
and move it over.
Now this would fall very
much into the make-it-work.
As we start to progress and
optimize on this, what you would do is,
you would say I want to copy
just the node files over.
And so, this certainly right here for
the sake of getting up and running,
this is fine.
But eventually what you wanna do is,
you want to get specific about what
you're copying into your application.
Now with that, one of the things
that I found is problematic or
challenging when working
with docker within
a mono repo is that inside
of our application,
we only have one package dot JSON.
And the problem with this is,
that we have all this angular stuff.
And then we have all this nest stuff.
And our node modules is
essentially a combination of all
our angular dependencies and
all of our nest dependencies.
Now what you do not want to do, is you
start to put this into production is to
essentially burden your nest application
with angular dependencies and vice versa.
And there's not necessarily
a great answer to this.
The answer that or
the technique that I use for
this is that I simply create
a new package dot JSON that has
just the dependencies for
that particular application.
And I place it inside the app.
So what I would do here, is,
I would go into the API and
I would create a specific package
dot JSON for this application.
And so this is kind of one of
these last steps that you do as
you start to integrate
into a CI CD pipeline.
I've spent a number of time or I've had
a number of conversations with the NX team
and other developers of like,
what is the solution?
For when you actually want to separate
dependencies from applications before you
deploy them and you build them.
And this is one option is that you just
create a separate manifest if you will,
per application.
There are some other solutions that exist
that will kind of allow you to do this on
the fly.
I don't even remember what they're called.
But it seemed like a lot more work
than simply just manually creating
a standalone manifest for
the production build.
So, this is one of these things if
somebody is watching this, and they know
of a way to segment dependencies for
like application, that would be amazing.
One thing I would possibly propose is
being able to tag your dependencies or
like sub segment them so that when
you're building it, you would say,
I wanna put just these
inside of the docker image.
So back to this Dockerfile,
we're just basically picking
everything up and we're moving it over,
and then we're exposing it on
the port that we set, which is 333.
Now if we go to the angular side,
we're doing essentially
the same exact thing,
except we're exposing port 4200.
And then from here, we're essentially
just picking it up and moving it over.
Now, we can run this individually,
one at a time.
So, if you wanted to build these and
run these completely standalone one or
the other, then you can build
the image and then you can run it.
And so these are the commands here.
But, what I do, because I know that
I want to run this in parallel,
is that I create a docker-compose
file that handles
essentially spinning up both
of these Dockerfiles at once.
And so, what I'm able to do is
I'm able to define by API image.
And I'm also able to define my app image.
And so not only am I writing,
I'm saying here's my port,
but then as well is a mapping the ports.
So I'm just saying 3333 is
mapped to 3333 on the outside.
So what you can do is you can
actually have an internal port, and
an external port in your docker image.
And then if we look here You'll
notice that we have this command.
And so what it does is,
when it copies everything into the image,
then it issues this command.
And so
what I really like about this particular
approach is this Dockerfile both of these,
are less than 25 lines long,
and they are fairly consistent.
And so I would say as you start to
go through this, and look at this,
that you'll start to see kind of
some very consistent things about
this like the big one being what
version are you using in your image?
What is the PORT?
A lot of this is pretty consistent,
and now this is the command right
here we're saying, serve the API.
We're doing the same exact thing here,
serve web.
But, within the docker compose,
what we're doing
is that we're able to do this
in one consolidated way so
that when you're ready to run this,
all you have to do
is run this docker compose up,
and what I've done and
I do have this running in
this other tab here is so
everything that we've
seen is it's building.
It's just taking all of that and
it's running
inside of the container but
you can to do this.
If you pull this down,
you can do docker compose up and
it's just going to essentially
spin up these images.
The one thing that I'm doing,
is that I use this remove orphans.
Remove orphans and build tags to give
me some greater control about that.
So it's going to remove any kind
of orphan images that we have, and
it's going to then build it.
And so the full command here, I recommend
pulling this down and running this from
the command line is that when this runs,
that it will take a little bit of time.
But what it will do when
you're when you're done, so
if you just run this command and
you have docker running, the end
result is that you will have two docker
images running on your local computer.
And you can also step into the docker
console, and inspect a lot of this.
But at the end of the day,
you'll notice that I'm
still at localhost 4200,
because we just mapped them, but now,
these are being served
via the docker image.
With that said, we now are running,
both of our applications inside
of this docker image or both.
We have actually two docker images and,
the next logical extension of this
what I typically do, is I do not
consider myself to be a database admin.
But I will typically spin up postgres, and
then run all of my data layer
inside of yet another image.
And so it's very common for me at a local
like in my local development flow,
to have typically like an API image,
and a front end web application image and
then a database image.
And the beauty of this is,
that this alleviates a lot of I think
the developer environment and
consistencies.
And so there's a lot of times where it's
like if this doesn't work on my computer,
it does work on my computer.
Well, what you can do is that when
you develop against docker images
is that you're able to pick these up, and
essentially create some insulation around
that environment, especially around
the things that you don't really want
to know about or you don't care about.
So, for instance,
a very stack that I've had to work with is
the front end is applique is in angular,
but the server is in Tomcat
using like Java spring or
something like some like Java back end.
And I was using,
it might have been Postgres or
something well I'm not
super great at ostgres, and
I'm not definitely not good at Java
framework like spring or whatever it was.
The way to solve that,
is that you wrap those particular
pieces into docker images.
And so I'm able to run them without
having to know how they work.
And then from here, really all
that you do is you can now pass in
these Docker files into
your CICD pipeline.
And they will generate
those docker images and
deploy those into wherever
it is you're targeting.
So, for me if I'm putting docker
images into the cloud typically
is going to go into fargate.
So I think fargate is a really,
really good option for
putting docker images because you just
essentially say, here's my image, and
it will handle all of the underlying
infrastructure for you.
It'll scale contract everything
that you need, kind of on command.
So this is where I think it's
kind of a good taste of really
Docker in an angular application or
in a mono repo.
But how this kind of works, and then now
it's a matter of taking these images and
then kind of putting them
wherever you would like,
even typically on the backside
of a CI CD pipeline.
Those go into like fargate
would be a good example.
So, with that said, I realized this has
been a whirlwind sampling of Docker
inside of an NX mono repo, but
just to summarize that It's putting an
angular application in a Docker image or
desktop application in a Docker
image is fairly simple.
In the sense of you just copy
the files over, you run the command.
You can streamline that
using your Docker compose.
And then ultimately you decide
where those need to go and
then you can but those images wherever.
More importantly is that you
can actually pass this around,
to your development team and
accelerate the development workflow